== 0.4.1 / November 30th, 2009

* exit(0) instead of just exit to make JRuby happy. [Elan Meng]

* Fixed activesupport deprecation warning by requiring active_support. #37 [Andrew Nesbitt]


== 0.4.0 / October 20th, 2009

* New output option replaces the old cron_log option for output redirection and is much more flexible. #31 [Peer Allan]

* Reorganized the lib files (http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2009/9/1/gem-packaging-best-practices) and switched to Jeweler from Echoe.


== 0.3.7 / September 4th, 2009

* No longer tries (and fails) to combine @shortcut jobs. #20 [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.3.6 / June 15th, 2009

* Setting a PATH in the crontab automatically based on the user's PATH. [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.3.5 / June 13th, 2009

* Added ability to accept lists of every's and at's and intelligently group them. (ex: every 'monday, wednesday', :at => ['3pm', '6am']). [Sam Ruby]

* Fixed issue with new lines. #18 [Javan Makhmali]

== 0.3.1 / June 25th, 2009

* Removed activesupport gem dependency. #1 [Javan Makhmali]

* Switched to numeric days of the week for Solaris support (and probably others). #8 [Roger Ertesvåg]


== 0.3.0 / June 2nd, 2009

* Added ability to set variables on the fly from the command line (ex: whenever --set environment=staging). [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.2.2 / April 30th, 2009

* Days of week jobs can now accept an :at directive (ex: every :monday, :at => '5pm'). [David Eisinger]

* Fixed command line test so it runs without a config/schedule.rb present. [Javan Makhmali]

* Raising an exception if someone tries to specify an :at with a cron shortcut (:day, :reboot, etc) so there are no false hopes. [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.1.7 / March 5th, 2009

* Added ability to update the crontab file non-destuctively instead of only overwriting it. [Javan Makhmali -- Inspired by code submitted individually from: Tien Dung (tiendung), Tom Lea (cwninja), Kyle Maxwell (fizx), and Andrew Timberlake (andrewtimberlake) on github]


== 0.1.5 / February 19th, 2009

* Fixed load path so Whenever's files don't conflict with anything in Rails. Thanks Ryan Koopmans. [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.1.4 / February 17th, 2009

* Added --load-file and --user opts to whenever binary. [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.1.3 / February 16th, 2009

* Added 'rake' helper for defining scheduled rake tasks. [Javan Makhmali]

* Renamed :cron_environment and :cron_path to :enviroment and :path for better (word) compatibility with rake tasks. [Javan Makhmali]

* Improved test load paths so tests can be run individually. [Javan Makhmali]

* Got rid of already initialized constant warning. [Javan Makhmali]

* Requiring specific gem versions: Chronic >=0.2.3 and activesupport >= 1.3.0 [Javan Makhmali]


== 0.1.0 / February 15th, 2009

* Initial release [Javan Makhmali]